@document.meta
title: Vocabulary
description: 
authors: aks
categories: 
created: 2026-02-19T22:43:25+0530
updated: 2026-03-20T22:34:25+0530
version: 1.1.1
@end

* Words

** aspersion
   - noun
   - an attack on the reputation or integrity of someone or something
     "I don't think anyone is /casting aspersions/ on you"
     "Now, you shouldn't /cast aspersions/, dear. Not all homicidal maniacs have such ghastly taste" - 00:24:51-Wednesday-S02E01

** bereft
   - adjective
   - Deprived of something.
     "They are bereft of their dignity."
   - Lacking something needed or expected. 
   - Suffering the death of a loved one; bereaved.
     "the bereft parents."

** candor
   - A disposition to treat subjects with fairness; freedom from prejudice or disguise; frankness; sincerity
   - ability to make judgements free from discrimination or dishonesty
   - the quality of being honest and straightforward in attitude and speech

** cadaver
   - noun
   - A dead body, especially one intended for dissection. A dead human body; a corpse.
     Similar: corpse 
   - A dead body; especially the corpse of a human to be dissected. 

** congenial
   - adjective
   - Having the same tastes, habits, or temperament; sympathetic.
   - Of a pleasant disposition; friendly and sociable.
    "a congenial host."
   - Suited to one's needs or nature; agreeable.
    "congenial surroundings."

** diatribe
   - noun
   - a forceful and bitter verbal attack against someone or something
     "a diatribe against consumerism"
   - An abusive, bitter denunciation
   - "tirade", "harangue"

** ensconce
   - transitive verb
   - to settle (oneself) securely or comfortably
     "She ensconced herself in an armchair"
   - to place or conceal in secure place
   - to cover or shelter as with a sconce or fort; to place or hide securely; to conceal

** exsanguinate
   - verb, medicine
   - drain (a person, animal or organ) of blood

** exuberance
   - joyful enthusiasm
   - overflowing with eager enjoyment or approval

** fraught
   - adjective
   - filled with a specified element or elements; "charged"
     "an incident fraught with danger; an evening fraught with high drama."
   - marked by or causing distress; emotional
   - situation that is complicated or stressful
   - "freighted", "laden"

** imbroglio
   - noun
   - A difficult or intricate situation; an entanglement. 
   - A confused or complicated disagreement. 
   - A confused heap; a tangle
** inextricable
   - adjective
   - so intricate or entangled as to make escape impossible
   - impossible to disentangle or untie
   - too involved or complicated to solve

** jamboree
   - A large festive gathering
   - A noisy or unrestrained carousal or frolic; a spree.
   - A gay festivity
   - "gala", "banquet", "blowout"

** lurid
   - adjective
   - Characterized by vivid description or explicit details that are meant to provoke or shock.
     "a lurid account of the crime."
   - Characterized by shocking or outrageous behavior.
     "a friend with a lurid past."
   - Bright and intense in color; vivid.

** maudlin
   - adjective
   - tearful; easily moved to tears; excessively sentimental
   - drunk, or somewhat drunk; fuddled
   - effusively or insincerely emotional

** osculate
   - to kiss

** ostensibly
   - adverb
   - as appears or is stated to be true, though _not necessarily_ so
     "the party secretary resigned, /ostensibly/ from ill health"
   - "apparently", "seemingly"

** pernicious
   - adjective, formal
   -- from pernecare (to kill or slay outright); per + necare (to kill, slay) 
   - having a very harmful or evil effect on somebody/something, in a way that is slow and not easily noticeable

** pulchritudinous
   - adjective
   - breathtakingly beautiful or physically attractive or comely

** redolent
   - adjective
   - Having or emitting an odor or fragrance; aromatic.
   - Suggestive; reminiscent.
    "a campaign redolent of machine politics."
   - Diffusing odor or fragrance; spreading sweet scent; scented; odorous; smelling; -- usually followed by of.
   Similar: scented odorous smelling

** salve
   - noun
   - An analgesic or medicinal ointment.
   - Something that soothes or consoles; a balm.
   - Flattery or commendation.

** sagacity
   - noun
   - The quality of being discerning, sound in judgment, and farsighted; wisdom.
   - The quality of being sagacious; quickness or acuteness of sense perceptions; keenness of discernment or penetration with soundness of judgment; shrewdness.
     Similar: shrewdness
   - The quality of being sage, wise, or able to make good decisions. 

** snarl
   - noun
   - A tangled mass, as of hair or yarn
   - A confused, complicated, or tangled situation
   - A vicious situation

** sundry
   - adjective
   - various; miscellaneous
   - several
   - separate; diverse

** usurer
   - noun
   - One who lends money at interest, especially at an exorbitant or unlawfully high rate. 
   - One who lends money and takes interest for it; a money lender.
   - One who lends money at a rate of interest beyond that established by law; one who exacts an exorbitant rate of interest for the use of money. 

** word
   - noun
   - A sound or a combination of sounds, or its representation in writing or printing, that symbolizes and communicates a meaning and may consist of a single morpheme or of a combination of morphemes.
   - Something said; an utterance, remark, or comment.
     "May I say a word about that?"
   - A command or direction; an order.
     "gave the word to retreat." 

     ===
%| vim: set ft=norg norl conceallevel=2 foldlevel=1 spell: |%
