@document.meta
title: fight-club
description: 
authors: aks
categories: 
created: 2026-02-25T21:46:07+0530
updated: 2026-02-25T22:22:40+0530
version: 1.1.1
@end

* Fight Club

  Watched it with some friends through the night of {@ 23 Feb 2026} and {@ 24 Feb 2026} (our 8th Semester's midsems had ended that morning).
  We decided to watch this movie after they shut me down wanting to watch horror movies lmao.
  -It was a bit annoying when one of them was sleepy and was not really following the movie-, but whatever, as always, I had fun.

  Went in mostly blind, did expect it to be /soo/ good. I still caught on to the twist (but not completely) due to having watched !{https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mr._Robot}[Mr.Robot]!.
  Well, the title was mostly clickbait in a sense lol. 
  In fact, would have watched it sooner if I had known that it was not about a literal fight club and had 4th wall breaking meta commentry. 
  Had watched {https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QbNTHxQIO1w}[this youtube video] the day before, only then got to know that Fight Club is more that just a fight club and the "don't talk about fight club" memes. 
  Oh and getting -jumpscared- surprised by {https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OJ62RzJkYUo}[Pixies - Where is My Mind] and realizing this is the source of all those !insomniac schizophrenic reels and memes! was fun. That whole "You met me at a very strange period of my life" scene and sequence were so good.

  Loved it.

** ( ) Critical Review
   - ( ) What did "look, my eyes are open" exactly mean ? Did it mean that this time !he was not asleep and was actually in control?!
